internals.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Internals
lang: en
---

Regolith is comprised of existing open source projects and some minor custom configuration and package metadata. The following table lists the primary components that make up Regolith Linux:

| Package | Function | Regolith Customization |
|---------|----------|------------------------|
|[Gnome-flashback](https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/GnomeFlashback)|System Management|[package](https://github.com/regolith-linux/regolith-gnome-flashback)|
|[i3-wm](https://i3wm.org/)|Tiling Window Manager|[package](https://github.com/regolith-linux/regolith-i3)|
|[i3-gaps](https://github.com/Airblader/i3)|Nice additions to i3-wm|See i3-wm|
|[Rofi](https://github.com/davatorium/rofi)|Application Launcher and Window Switcher|[package](https://github.com/regolith-linux/regolith-rofi-config)|
|[Compton](https://github.com/chjj/compton)|Compositor|[package](https://github.com/regolith-linux/regolith-compton-config)|
|[Conky](https://github.com/brndnmtthws/conky)|Shortcuts on Desktop|[package](https://github.com/regolith-linux/regolith-conky-config)|
|[GDM3](https://wiki.debian.org/GDM)|Login Screen|[package](https://github.com/regolith-linux/regolith-gdm3-theme)|
|[Simple Terminal (st)](https://st.suckless.org/)|Terminal Emulator|[package](https://github.com/regolith-linux/regolith-st)|
|[i3-gnome-flashback](https://github.com/deuill/i3-gnome-flashback)|i3/gnome integration|[repo](https://github.com/deuill/i3-gnome-flashback)|
|[Adobe Source Code Pro](https://github.com/adobe-fonts/source-code-pro)|Primary Font|N/A|
|[Solarized Color Palette](https://ethanschoonover.com/solarized/)|Color Scheme|N/A|
|[Psiu Puxa Wallpapers](http://wallpaper-site.webflow.io/)|Desktop Backgrounds|N/A|

# Distribution

Regolith is a set of Ubuntu packages distributed via two "Private Package Repositories" (PPA):

| Repository | URL | Purpose |
| [Regolith Stable](https://launchpad.net/~kgilmer/+archive/ubuntu/regolith-stable) | https://launchpad.net/~kgilmer/+archive/ubuntu/regolith-stable | Primary repository for Regolith packages |
| [Regolith Unstable](https://launchpad.net/~kgilmer/+archive/ubuntu/regolith-unstable) | https://launchpad.net/~kgilmer/+archive/ubuntu/regolith-unstable | Pre-release versions of Regolith packages. Not recommended for everyday use of Regolith. |

# Hacking

## Configuration

Colors and fonts can be changed in Regolith by updating your Xresource values.  The primary Xresources file that Regolith uses is `~/.Xresources-regolith-<version>` where version is the current version of `regolith-styles` that's installed.  You can find this by running `apt list --installed | grep regolith-styles` from a terminal.  Each time `regolith-styles` is updated, a new copy is put into your user directory.  This ensures that any changes you may have made do not get overwritten.  After an update you may need to merge custom changes from an earlier version into your current version.  The old versions remain in your user directory but are not directly referenced by Regolith.  If you do not need any changes from them (for example if you are using Regolith's default settings), these older files can be removed.

### Colors

Color values can be selected by toggling the `#includes` in your Regolith Xresources file.  Lines in Xresources are commented if `!` is the first character of the line.


## Package Changes

| Function | Component | Configuration File | Package |
|----------|-----------|--------------------|---------|
|Desktop Bar|i3-bar|`~/.config/i3-regolith/config-4.16-1ubuntu18ppa10`|regolith-i3|
|System Status Indicators|i3xrocks|`~/.config/i3xrocks/i3xrocks.conf`|regolith-i3xrocks|
|Window Manager|i3-wm|`~/.config/i3-regolith/config-4.16-1ubuntu18ppa10`|regolith-i3|
|App Launcher|Rofi|`/etc/rofi.conf`|regolith-rofi-config|
|System Keybindings|i3-wm|`~/.config/i3-regolith/config-4.16-1ubuntu18ppa10`|regolith-i3|
|Keybinding Guide|Conky|`/etc/xdg/conky/config`|regolith-conky-config|

## Packaging

All deployable aspects of Regolith Linux are expressed via debian packages.  These packages are available in source form on the [Regolith Linux Github project](https://github.com/regolith-linux).  Creating packages is not necessary to change the look and feel of Regolith, however there are advantages to packaging changes.  More easily sharing changes, ability to have a common configuration across machines, automatic updates, and a clean versioning strategy are all advantages to using a packaging system.

Commit message:

Update internals page for new config layout.

internals.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Internals
lang: en
---

Regolith is comprised of existing open source projects and some minor custom configuration and package metadata. The following table lists the primary components that make up Regolith Linux:

| Package | Function | Regolith Customization |
|---------|----------|------------------------|
|[Gnome-flashback](https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/GnomeFlashback)|System Management|[package](https://github.com/regolith-linux/regolith-gnome-flashback)|
|[i3-wm](https://i3wm.org/)|Tiling Window Manager|[package](https://github.com/regolith-linux/regolith-i3)|
|[i3-gaps](https://github.com/Airblader/i3)|Nice additions to i3-wm|See i3-wm|
|[Rofi](https://github.com/davatorium/rofi)|Application Launcher and Window Switcher|[package](https://github.com/regolith-linux/regolith-rofi-config)|
|[Compton](https://github.com/chjj/compton)|Compositor|[package](https://github.com/regolith-linux/regolith-compton-config)|
|[Conky](https://github.com/brndnmtthws/conky)|Shortcuts on Desktop|[package](https://github.com/regolith-linux/regolith-conky-config)|
|[GDM3](https://wiki.debian.org/GDM)|Login Screen|[package](https://github.com/regolith-linux/regolith-gdm3-theme)|
|[Simple Terminal (st)](https://st.suckless.org/)|Terminal Emulator|[package](https://github.com/regolith-linux/regolith-st)|
|[i3-gnome-flashback](https://github.com/deuill/i3-gnome-flashback)|i3/gnome integration|[repo](https://github.com/deuill/i3-gnome-flashback)|
|[Adobe Source Code Pro](https://github.com/adobe-fonts/source-code-pro)|Primary Font|N/A|
|[Solarized Color Palette](https://ethanschoonover.com/solarized/)|Color Scheme|N/A|
|[Psiu Puxa Wallpapers](http://wallpaper-site.webflow.io/)|Desktop Backgrounds|N/A|

# Distribution

Regolith is a set of Ubuntu packages distributed via two "Private Package Repositories" (PPA):

| Repository | URL | Purpose |
| [Regolith Stable](https://launchpad.net/~kgilmer/+archive/ubuntu/regolith-stable) | https://launchpad.net/~kgilmer/+archive/ubuntu/regolith-stable | Primary repository for Regolith packages |
| [Regolith Unstable](https://launchpad.net/~kgilmer/+archive/ubuntu/regolith-unstable) | https://launchpad.net/~kgilmer/+archive/ubuntu/regolith-unstable | Pre-release versions of Regolith packages. Not recommended for everyday use of Regolith. |

# Hacking

## Configuration

Colors and fonts can be changed in Regolith by updating your Xresource values.  The primary Xresources file that Regolith uses is `/etc/regolith/styles/root`.  To customize them, copy that file to `~/.Xresources-regolith`.  After logging back in your new settings should take effect.

### Colors

Color values can be selected by toggling the `#includes` in your Regolith Xresources file.  Lines in Xresources are commented if `!` is the first character of the line.


## Package Changes

| Function | Component | Configuration File | Package |
|----------|-----------|--------------------|---------|
|Desktop Bar|i3-bar|`~/.config/regolith/i3/config`|regolith-i3|
|System Status Indicators|i3xrocks|`~/.config/regolith/i3xrocks/config`|regolith-i3xrocks|
|Window Manager|i3-wm|`~/.config/regolith/i3/config`|regolith-i3|
|App Launcher|Rofi|`/etc/rofi.conf`|regolith-rofi-config|
|System Keybindings|i3-wm|`~/.config/regolith/i3/config`|regolith-i3|
|Keybinding Guide|Conky|`/etc/xdg/conky/config`|regolith-conky-config|

## Packaging

All deployable aspects of Regolith Linux are expressed via debian packages.  These packages are available in source form on the [Regolith Linux Github project](https://github.com/regolith-linux).  Creating packages is not necessary to change the look and feel of Regolith, however there are advantages to packaging changes.  More easily sharing changes, ability to have a common configuration across machines, automatic updates, and a clean versioning strategy are all advantages to using a packaging system.
