policies.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Policies
---

## Privacy

There is nothing in Regolith Linux itself that collects any user data, either anonymously or otherwise.  Because Regolith is a customization of Ubuntu Linux, any data collection that Ubuntu is doing will also be performed by Regolith Linux.  This website has vanilla Google Analytics integration.

## Contribution

As an open source project, Regolith Linux is open to anyone to extend, fork, or modify as they see fit.  People are welcome to join as contributors to the project if interested. Please file an issue describing the change you'd like to be made to Regolith before doing the work however, so we do not waste your time. Also take a look at [the roadmap](https://regolith-linux.org/news.html#roadmap) to see what is actively being developed and future plans.

## Monetization

Regolith Linux is an open source project with no profit motives.  Because this software can be provided without cost via GitHub, Source Forge, and Launchpad.net, there is no overhead and no need to spray advertisements all over everything.  GitHub, Launchpad.net, and Source Forge may have advertisements for their costs.

Commit message:

Add description of package updates to policies.  Fixes https://github.com/regolith-linux/regolith-desktop/issues/87.

policies.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Policies
---

## Privacy

There is nothing in Regolith Linux itself that collects any user data, either anonymously or otherwise.  Because Regolith is a customization of Ubuntu Linux, any data collection that Ubuntu is doing will also be performed by Regolith Linux.  This website has vanilla Google Analytics integration.

## Updates

Regolith Linux is continually being updated with bug fixes and feature enhancements.  At times, these changes will introduce changes that are not backwards compatible with earlier versions.  When this occurs, new copies of any user configuration files (such as the i3 config file) will be staged in the user directory.  Existing files will not be deleted or modified, allowing the user to merge their customizations as needed.  Notification of upcoming updates that introduce breaking changes will be announced on the [Regolith Linux Announcements mailing list](https://www.freelists.org/list/regolith-linux).

## Contribution

As an open source project, Regolith Linux is open to anyone to extend, fork, or modify as they see fit.  People are welcome to join as contributors to the project if interested. Please file an issue describing the change you'd like to be made to Regolith before doing the work however, so we do not waste your time. Also take a look at [the roadmap](https://regolith-linux.org/news.html#roadmap) to see what is actively being developed and future plans.

## Monetization

Regolith Linux is an open source project with no profit motives.  Because this software can be provided without cost via GitHub, Source Forge, and Launchpad.net, there is no overhead and no need to spray advertisements all over everything.  GitHub, Launchpad.net, and Source Forge may have advertisements for their costs.
